SQL Server is software (A Relational Database Management System) developed by Microsoft. 
It is also called MS SQL Server. It is implemented from the specification of RDBMS.


The relational database management system (RDBMS) is a Microsoft software product mainly 
used to store and retrieve data for the same or other applications. We can run these 
applications on the same computer or a different one.


Microsoft developed and marketed the SQL Server relational database management system (RDBMS)
to primarily compete with the MySQL and Oracle databases.


Usage of SQL Server:-----

   The following are the key usage of MS SQL Server:

   ------> Its main purpose is to build and maintain databases.
   ------> It is used to analyze the data using SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS).
   ------> It is used to generate reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).
   ------> It is used to perform ETL operations using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS).


SQL Server Editions:-------

    SQL Server comprises five editions with different bundled services and tools and pricing 
    options to meet the user needs. Microsoft provides two editions of SQL Server free of 
    charge, which are given below:

	1. SQL Server Developer: This edition was released mainly for use in the non-production 
			         environment, i.e., database development and testing. It allows 
			         to build, test, and demo purpose.


	2. SQL Server Express: It is used for small-scale applications and databases with disc 
			       storage capacities of up to 10 GB.


	For commercial purposes, the following editions are used:-------------------

	3. SQL Server Enterprise: It is used in high-end, larger, and more critical businesses. 
			          All SQL Server features, such as high-end security, advanced analytics, 
			          and machine learning, are included in this version.


	4. SQL Server Standard: This edition is suitable for data marts and mid-tier applications that included 
			        basic reporting and analytics. It supports partial enterprise edition's feature, 
			        as well as server limitations on the number of processor cores and memory that we 
			        can configure.


	5. SQL Server WEB: This edition is suitable for Web hosters who want a low overall ownership cost. It has 
			   features of scalability, manageability capabilities, and affordability for small to 
			   large-scale web properties.




SQL Server provides two types of database:
	
	1. System databases
	2. User Databases


	1. System Databases: 
		The system databases are created automatically while installing the MS SQL Server on our system. 
		It plays an essential role in the server such database run perfectly. The following are the list 
		of system databases in SQL Server:
						  -------> Master
						  -------> Model
						  -------> MSDB
						  -------> Tempdb


	2. User Databases: 
		The user databases are created by database users like 'DBAs' and 'testers' who can access a database also.
	



We can create a database in SQL Server mainly in two ways:
	
	a. Transact-SQL Command (T-Sql command)
	b. SQL Server Management Studio






































































































































































































































































